Wireshark 3.6.0 Release Notes

 What is Wireshark?

  Wireshark is the world’s most popular network protocol analyzer. It is
  used for troubleshooting, analysis, development and education.

 What’s New

  Many improvements have been made. See the “New and Updated Features”
  section below for more details. You might want to pay particular
  attention to the display filter syntax updates.

  New and Updated Features

   The following features are new (or have been significantly updated)
   since version 3.6.0rc3:

     • The macOS Intel packages now ship with Qt 5.15.3 and require
       macOS 10.13 or later.

   The following features are new (or have been significantly updated)
   since version 3.6.0rc2:

     • Display filter set elements must now be comma-separated.

   The following features are new (or have been significantly updated)
   since version 3.6.0rc1:

     • The display filter expression “a != b” now has the same meaning
       as “!(a == b)”.

   The following features are new (or have been significantly updated)
   since version 3.5.0:

     • Nothing of note.

   The following features are new (or have been significantly updated)
   since version 3.4.0:

     • Several changes have been made to the display filter syntax:

        • The expression “a != b” now always has the same meaning as
       “!(a == b)”. In particular this means filter expressions with
       multi-value fields like “ip.addr != 1.1.1.1” will work as
       expected (the result is the same as typing “ip.src != 1.1.1.1 and
       ip.dst != 1.1.1.1”). This avoids the contradiction (a == b and a
       != b) being true.

        • It is possible to use the syntax “a ~= b” or “a any_ne b” to
       recover the previous (inconsistent with "==") logic for not
       equal.

        • Literal strings can now be specified using raw string syntax,
       identical to raw strings in the Python programming language. This
       can be used to avoid the complexity of using two levels of
       character escapes with regular expressions.

        • Set elements must now be separated using a comma. A filter
       such as http.request.method in {"GET" "HEAD"} must be written as
       …​ in {"GET", "HEAD"}. (Whitespace is not significant.) The
       previous use of whitespace as separator is deprecated and will be
       removed in a future version.

        • Support for the syntax "a not in b" with the same meaning as
       "not a in b" has been added.

     • The Windows installers now ship with Npcap 1.55.

     • A 64-bit Windows PortableApps package is now available.

     • A macOS Arm 64 (Apple Silicon) package is now available.

     • TCP conversations now support a completeness criteria, which
       facilitates the identification of TCP streams having any of
       opening or closing handshakes, a payload, in any combination. It
       can be accessed with the new tcp.completeness filter.

     • Protobuf fields that are not serialized on the wire or otherwise
       missing in capture files can now be displayed with default values
       by setting the new “add_default_value” preference. The default
       values might be explicitly declared in “proto2” files, or false
       for bools, first value for enums, zero for numeric types.

     • Wireshark now supports reading Event Tracing for Windows (ETW). A
       new extcap named ETW reader is created that now can open an etl
       file, convert all events in the file to DLT_ETW packets and write
       to a specified FIFO destination. Also, a new packet_etw dissector
       is created to dissect DLT_ETW packets so Wireshark can display
       the DLT_ETW packet header, its message and packet_etw dissector
       calls packet_mbim sub_dissector if its provider matches the MBIM
       provider GUID.

     • “Follow DCCP stream” feature to filter for and extract the
       contents of DCCP streams.

     • Wireshark now supports dissecting RTP packets with OPUS payloads.

     • Importing captures from text files based on regular expressions
       is now possible. By specifying a regex capturing a single packet
       including capturing groups for relevant fields a textfile can be
       converted to a libpcap capture file. Supported data encodings are
       plain-hexadecimal, -octal, -binary and base64. Also the timestamp
       format now allows the second-fractions to be placed anywhere in
       the timestamp and it will be stored with nanosecond instead of
       microsecond precision.

     • Significant RTP Player redesign and improvements (see Wireshark
       User Documentation, Playing VoIP Calls[1] and RTP Player
       Window[2])

        • The RTP Player can play many streams in row.

        • The UI is more responsive.

        • The RTP Player maintains playlist and other tools can add and
       remove streams to and from it.

        • Every stream can be muted or routed to the left or right
       channel for replay.

        • The option to save audio has been moved from the RTP Analysis
       dialog to the RTP Player. The RTP Player also saves what was
       played, and it can save in multichannel .au or .wav.

        • The RTP Player is now accessible from the Telephony › RTP ›
       RTP Player menu.

     • The VoIP dialogs (VoIP Calls, RTP Streams, RTP Analysis, RTP
       Player, SIP Flows) are non-modal and can stay opened on
       background.

        • The same tools are provided across all dialogs (Prepare
       Filter, Analyse, RTP Player …​)

     • The “Follow Stream” dialog is now able to follow SIP calls based
       on their Call-ID value.

     • The “Follow Stream” dialog’s YAML output format has been updated
       to add timestamps and peers information For more details see
       Following Protocol Streams[3] in the User’s Guide.

     • IP fragments between public IPv4 addresses are now reassembled
       even if they have different VLAN IDs. Reassembly of IP fragments
       where one endpoint is a private (RFC 1918 section 3) or
       link-local (RFC 3927) IPv4 address continues to take the VLAN ID
       into account, as those addresses can be reused. To revert to the
       previous behavior and not reassemble fragments with different
       VLAN IDs, turn on the “Enable stricter conversation tracking
       heuristics” top level protocol preference.

     • USB Link Layer reassembly has been added, which allows hardware
       captures to be analyzed at the same level as software captures.

     • TShark can now export TLS session keys with the
       --export-tls-session-keys option.

     • Wireshark participated in the Google Season of Docs 2020 and the
       User’s Guide has been extensively updated.

     • The “RTP Stream Analysis” dialog CSV export format was slightly
       changed. The first line of the export contains column titles as
       in other CSV exports.

     • Wireshark now supports the Turkish language.

     • The settings in the “Import from Hex Dump” dialog is now stored
       in a profile import_hexdump.json file.

     • Analyze › Reload Lua Plugins has been improved to properly
       support FileHandler.

     • Corrected calculation of mean jitter in RTP Stream Analysis
       dialog and “IAX2 Stream Analysis” dialog

     • RTP streams are created based on Skinny protocol messages

     • The “VoIP Calls Flow Sequence” window shows more information
       about various Skinny messages

     • Initial support for building Wireshark on Windows using GCC and
       MinGW-w64 has been added. See README.msys2 in the sources for
       more information.

  New File Format Decoding Support

   Vector Informatik Binary Log File (BLF)

  New Protocol Support

   5G Lawful Interception (5GLI), Bluetooth Link Manager Protocol (BT
   LMP), Bundle Protocol version 7 (BPv7), Bundle Protocol version 7
   Security (BPSec), CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE), E2
   Application Protocol (E2AP), Event Tracing for Windows (ETW), EXtreme
   extra Eth Header (EXEH), High-Performance Connectivity Tracer
   (HiPerConTracer), ISO 10681, Kerberos SPAKE, Linux psample protocol,
   Local Interconnect Network (LIN), Microsoft Task Scheduler Service,
   O-RAN E2AP, O-RAN fronthaul UC-plane (O-RAN), Opus Interactive Audio
   Codec (OPUS), PDU Transport Protocol, R09.x (R09), RDP Dynamic
   Channel Protocol (DRDYNVC), RDP Graphic pipeline channel Protocol
   (EGFX), RDP Multi-transport (RDPMT), Real-Time Publish-Subscribe
   Virtual Transport (RTPS-VT), Real-Time Publish-Subscribe Wire
   Protocol (processed) (RTPS-PROC), Shared Memory Communications (SMC),
   Signal PDU, SparkplugB, State Synchronization Protocol (SSyncP),
   Tagged Image File Format (TIFF), TP-Link Smart Home Protocol, UAVCAN
   DSDL, UAVCAN/CAN, UDP Remote Desktop Protocol (RDPUDP), Van Jacobson
   PPP compression (VJC), World of Warcraft World (WOWW), and X2 xIRI
   payload (xIRI)

  Updated Protocol Support

   Too many protocols have been updated to list here.

  New and Updated Capture File Support

   Vector Informatik Binary Log File (BLF)

 Getting Wireshark

  Wireshark source code and installation packages are available from
  https://www.wireshark.org/download.html.

  Vendor-supplied Packages

   Most Linux and Unix vendors supply their own Wireshark packages. You
   can usually install or upgrade Wireshark using the package management
   system specific to that platform. A list of third-party packages can
   be found on the download page[4] on the Wireshark web site.

 File Locations

  Wireshark and TShark look in several different locations for
  preference files, plugins, SNMP MIBS, and RADIUS dictionaries. These
  locations vary from platform to platform. You can use Help › About
  Wireshark › Folders or tshark -G folders to find the default locations
  on your system.

 Getting Help

  The User’s Guide, manual pages and various other documentation can be
  found at https://www.wireshark.org/docs/

  Community support is available on Wireshark’s Q&A site[5] and on the
  wireshark-users mailing list. Subscription information and archives
  for all of Wireshark’s mailing lists can be found on the web site[6].

  Bugs and feature requests can be reported on the issue tracker[7].

 Frequently Asked Questions

  A complete FAQ is available on the Wireshark web site[8].

  Last updated 2021-11-21 16:06:54 UTC

 References

   1. https://www.wireshark.org/docs/wsug_html_chunked/ChTelPlayingCalls
  .html
   2. https://www.wireshark.org/docs/wsug_html_chunked/_rtp.html#ChTelRt
  pPlayer
   3. https://www.wireshark.org/docs/wsug_html_chunked/ChAdvFollowStream
  Section.html
   4. https://www.wireshark.org/download.html
   5. https://ask.wireshark.org/
   6. https://www.wireshark.org/lists/
   7. https://gitlab.com/wireshark/wireshark/-/issues
   8. https://www.wireshark.org/faq.html
